The Bingham Canyon porphyry Cu-Mo-Au deposit is a large, high-grade porphyry orebody located in the Oquirrh Mountains of Utah. The deposit is centered on a late Eocene composite pluton, referred to as the Bingham stock, which intruded a thick sequence of quartzite, calcareous quartzite, and limestone of the Pennsylvanian Oquirrh Group. The Bingham stock is made up of an equigranular monzonite phase that was intruded by a series of ore-related porphyry dikes, including quartz monzonite porphyry (QMP), latite porphyry (LP), biotite porphyry (BP), quartz latite porphyry breccia (QLPbx), and quartz latite porphyry (QLP). The porphyry dikes are steeply dipping and have two dominant orientations: north-northeast and northwest-striking. The north-northeast faults served as conduits for ore-forming fluids peripheral to the Bingham stock. The porphyry dikes and faults controlled the emplacement of the ore-related intrusions and the formation of the copper-gold ore. The ore deposit is characterized by a complex sequence of veins, including biotite veinlets, early dark micaceous (EDM) veins, A-quartz veins, quartz-molybdenite veins, and quartz-sericite-pyrite veins. The A-quartz veins are the most abundant vein type and contain the bulk of the copper-gold ore. The intensity of potassic alteration is highest in QMP and declines with time through the succession of intrusions. Copper and gold grades are highest in QMP and decrease abruptly across contacts with younger porphyries. The bornite/chalcopyrite ratio also varies between porphyry intrusions, with the highest ratios found in QMP. The deposit formed through multiple cycles of porphyry dike emplacement, vein formation, and sulfide deposition, with the flux of magmatic-hydrothermal fluids and the mass of introduced copper and gold decreasing markedly through time. The Bingham Canyon deposit is an example of a porphyry copper deposit that was controlled by regional structure and formed through the interaction of magmatic and hydrothermal processes. The deposit's characteristics, including its vein types, alteration styles, and sulfide mineral assemblages, are consistent with a deep source region for the magmatic fluids. The study of the Bingham Canyon deposit provides insights into the formation of giant porphyry copper deposits and the role of structural controls, magmatic-hydrothermal fluids, and multiple cycles of mineralization in their formation.